there is a lot of trolling on the
Internet there's so much trolling that I
think many of you expected me to come up
with an apology video the next day after
my video that mentions the name of Nina
Aranda saying hey guys don't take it too
seriously just joking around I'm
trolling here's my apology and the truth
is the exact opposite that video
expresses really sincere concerns in my
part I'm sincerely concerned that a
whole bunch of prominent figures in
veganism as a political movement are
leading the movement in a bad direction
I'm sincerely concerned not just about
bikini models I'm concerned about people
who publish books people are university
professors people who are lawyers people
were leaders of activist groups involved
in street activism I'm sincerely
concerned that a lot of those people are
idiots and my concerns are based on the
books they publish based on the articles
they've written and in many cases based
on YouTube videos YouTube videos that
are lectures or what-have-you and yes
people like Nina and Randa are one small
part of that puzzle in the past pretty
closely parallel I had criticisms here
of freely because again I was sincerely
concerned about the negative influence
freely was having on this movement from
my perspective negative influence and I
want to express those warnings I want to
express those concerns because I think
they were important and I still do I'm
not going to respond to the actual
criticism have received because it's too
stupid I haven't received a single
comment in any format or any forum
actually claiming that what Nina and
Randa have to say is intelligent not one
I've not received a single comment in
any format or any forum defending need
and Randa doing a paid commercial paid
advertisement for Taco Bell and thus
endorsing fast food industry meat and
dairy industry etc etc within the United
States not one I haven't received one
message from anyone and this is a
contrast to my experience with freely I
received one mess
from anyone saying look even though Nina
and Rand are idiots even though the Taco
Bell commercial was wrong even though
these other things that you mentioned
are a real problem still what Nina and
rata have contributed to veganism is so
important and so positive that you
should see in the balance and that
really was with freely that was very
often the response of God were people
who admitted that my criticism was
accurate but he said that nevertheless I
should appreciate the positive things
that Frehley did and that's an
interesting debate to have and I think
that debate unfolded on this channel and
I think that debate unfolded all over
the Internet
during the last ten years but you know I
can imagine a much more powerful
counter-argument to that video and even
though nobody gave me this argument I'm
now gonna argue against myself so that I
just wanted to debate with I think a
more powerful counter-argument as this
looks shouldn't matter even though they
do even though we know that physical
beauty matters in this world especially
if you're presenting yourself on the
Internet in a bikini selling a diet
selling a lifestyle in a perfect world
someone's physical appearance wouldn't
matter
so let's behave ourselves on YouTube as
if we're living in that perfect world
let's respond to that higher aspiration
to just address the issues or just
address the political concerns and
ignore who's ugly who's beautiful and
you know what in some context we can do
that I think I mean I criticize Gary
France aione in that video and I
referred to earlier videos where I spoke
at more length and more depth vogue Air
France II own a have a new video since
then talking about the nature of
abolitionism and contrast ethical
veganism talking about the ideas
political philosophical and otherwise
and the implications for being this 21st
century I talk about all that stuff I
don't think I've ever really mentioned
that Gary Fran Sione is not very
good-looking beauty is in the eye of the
beholder I think it'd be fair to say
Gary Franchione is ugly so in that
context I think we are engaging in a
substantive discussion without even
mentioning what a person looks like I
just ordered on the Internet David Allen
Ebert's book anal oppression and human
violence I'm gonna do a book review of
that I don't know how long I'll take to
ship here I have no idea what he looks
like I've never seen a photograph the
author maybe he's incredibly ugly all
the time
actually do engage with political and
philosophical debates of this kind
without mentioning without considering
what a person looks like without their
their ugliness or beauty being affect
all the time
however gary france aione has never made
a video on youtube comparable to the lik
my body challenge the lik my body
challenge is more than two million views
if you search nina Rande challenge I'm
sure it's the first result you're going
to get and in that video Nina and red
are taking off their clothes and having
their boyfriends lick their body that is
who they are that is what their fame
comes from their beauty their appearance
and what other vegans say about their
beauty and promoting them and their
career that is important it is
significant and what I see is people
making excuses for them making excuses
where they say about politics making
excuses what they say about ethical
veganism what they say about
cruelty-free lifestyle these other
foolish things they say on account of
their beauty so then the line of
argument I'm dealing with really follows
be really slowing their allegedly
beautiful their allegedly famous because
of their beauty because they're vegan
and famous and beautiful we ought to
support them and support them means
overlooking what they're doing that's
bad and wrong and idiotic and just
stupid leading veganism bad direction in
connection to Taco Bell or just in
relation to making garbage content on
the internet so I think that is a flawed
argument physical beauty in some
contexts is irrelevant and would make
your argument seem ridiculous
criticizing Gary frenzy on a for being
ugly is not that meaningful compared to
the type of criticism I already have of
Gary France aione and his approach to
being in politics on this channel but on
the other hand sometimes it's a little
bit relevant sometimes it's very
relevant I think there's an open
question with a guy like will Tuttle I
have a separate video criticizing will
Tuttle in the world peace diet and the
semi supernatural ideas that are in that
book I think there's an open question is
will Tuttle just famous because he's
handsome
why did anyone ever respect this guy or
pretend to respect this guy how did he
rise to a position of apparent
prominence as a leader within veganism
and I find it very troubling because his
book wouldn't be respected in a Buddhist
context and shouldn't be respected in a
secular context either it's just a
tremendously weak book I think most
people haven't read the book I think
they have seen his face
maybe his beauty maybe his physical
appearance maybe Oh answered
maybe that is actually you factory of
dogma right but definitely in the case
of someone like Frehley her prominence
her role her claim to fame even her
claim to authority her claim to why you
should take her opinion about nutrition
seriously is utterly utterly based on
her physical appearance and I'll tell
you something I said years ago Bo freely
but I have Smet freely in person I have
seen freely face to face in Thailand we
didn't talk hahaha
you know it's true she has a striking
midriff that one part of her body is
unusual its striking when you meet her
in person and she very often wears
clothes that leave her midriff bare um
she has a striking midriff I do not
think really could have had a career as
a runway model I don't think if she
walked into a modeling agency as a
fitness model or as an aspiring actress
or since param I don't think she ever
could have had that kind of career life
is unfair not a criticism but it's
completely true you can meet and talk to
people on the internet who really came
to trust freely who really came to take
her pseudo-scientific medical advice
about diet and exercise and lifestyle
seriously entirely because of her
physical appearance and I can remember
freely herself saying many times that
her credentials don't come from a
university her credentials are her body
she has said that I'm only slightly
paraphrasing she has said it's my body
and it's how effortlessly I maintain
this body
those are my credentials that's why you
should trust me that's why I should take
it seriously and in essentially being
honest because I think that's true her
claim to fame um the reason why she was
taken seriously is her body and I think
we're now dealing with the legacy of not
only terrible health advice terrible
health and diet diet advice terrible
weight loss advice but terrible
political advice because in the last two
years last five years freelee and
durianrider have been influential
politically their model of lifestyle
active
some their model of promoting a
permanent vacation there a model of
glorifying a life without
responsibilities of self-indulgence of
self distraction of self infatuation
their idea that what you need to do is
get on the internet and show people how
happy and healthy and beautiful you are
and how vibrant and happy and rewarding
the vegan lifestyle is that that's the
way forward for veganism it was a
tremendously influential political idea
and I think within the last one year
we've seen that political ideology start
to disintegrate we've seen cracks and
maybe it still is disintegrating and
maybe the prominence of people like Nina
Aranda today is a legacy of that
paradigm that's now piece by piece
falling apart maybe not maybe it's
always going to be with us maybe there's
always going to be another Frehley and
another Nina Randa coming up again and
again I don't know I can live with that
in closing I just say again I do not
offer these critiques for no reason all
these people can change I have had
vegans thank me for the profound impact
my videos had on their lives I've had
people thank me because they became
vegan because of my videos also people
who converted to veganism
but most of my impacts on people already
were vegan I've had people tell me they
decided to go back to school to enroll
in college in university directly
because the influence of my videos I've
had people email me and not just tell me
that but ask my opinion on exactly what
major they're holding in in college when
they decide to go back to college I've
had people email me and tell me about
how they reorganize their own activism
either as an individual or as a group
how they really ate it their strategy
and tactics short term long term how
they're going to make an effective
impact in the world
um the criticism I engage in on this
channel it's not trolling it's also not
pointless it has real outcomes in
people's lives and even someone has
hardened and cynical as freely even
someone with such a strong financial
incentive to sort of live a lie etc etc
even freely can change and in the
contrary when you look back at the last
two years maybe you have to say it's
impossible
for freely to stay the same you know
we've seen tremendous change in who she
is and her practice of preaching
veganism people are going to change I
don't know if Nina and Rand are going to
change most people who are idiots stay
idiots because of the choices they make
they choose to live like an idiot and
it's not a choice they make once they
choose day after day they choose again
and again and again and you know you can
make different choices and most you they
don't have to be as dramatic as going
back to university you can choose
instead of having a reckless lifestyle
permanent vacation you can choose to be
sincerely engaged with sincerely
concerned about political issues poverty
whatever the issues are where you are in
the world when you buy a plane ticket to
Thailand you can go there for reasons
more meaningful than riding your bicycle
up and down hill every day etc etc watch
this channel for a while you've heard
these things before and you know what
you could respond to that 20-minute
video on my channel by deciding that you
can do better and I don't mean deciding
you can do better in terms of making a
hot or not video we're talking about
who's sexy and who's ugly that's the
last thing I hope that video would
inspire you to do you could watch that
video inside you know what this guy
mazzard he's got a criticism of will
Tuttle's world peace diet but I can do
better I can read that book I can
criticize that book I can have a bunch
of fresh insights into vegan activism
you could watch my videos about direct
action everywhere and make your own
video do your own reading to your own
research and so you know what I have my
own perspective on effective vegan
activism or about the essays Wayans
young and the right to action everywhere
published I have something to contribute
this I've just told you I'm ordering now
I think my next book review is going to
be about animal oppression human
violence by David Ellen Ebert
do better you know Eclipse me totally
leave me in the shade
you know what saying and everyone's
going to have intellectual respect for
you
you know what I mean I've said in the
past that different people can
contribute in different ways
some people are going to be makini
models some people are going to be
health gurus not everyone is going to be
sincerely interested engage with
political elements of veganism I still
say that I still believe that not
everyone is going to care about the
elements of the struggle I care about
and that's fine I accept that but the
other hand I said said this before on
this channel says again because this is
as real as it gets
ok there's a difference between becoming
a stripper so that you can pay your way
through college and dropping out of
college in order to become a stripper
when I express concern about people who
I see on the Internet who just seemed to
me complete idiots and to be celebrating
that idiocy and I see thousands of other
people celebrating that idiocy and the
excuses that they're beautiful and my
perspective is they're not even
beautiful yeah I got something to say
about that and you know what I think you
know their father who's also a public
figure Jeff Nelson I think he should
feel deeply ashamed I think he should
feel concerned not so much because
you're looking at that video the lick my
body challenge and isolation not just
because the footage of them bikinis is
being looked at they're in isolation but
because it is part of a package it is
part of a parcel of celebrating a
meaningless stupid life of
self-indulgence and it's a life in which
this this kind of idiocy is being
treated as if it's intelligent and witty
and insightful and positive and good for
veganism when it's not and I think that
most people stop being idiots when they
choose to stop being idiots when they
choose they're going to take themselves
more seriously and when they choose to
take you know social reality real
problems in this world more seriously in
the same way that most people get
engaged with veganism animal rights and
ecology
when they choose that they want to
become good people